So this sounds like it fits
into this question, but
they're asking any reason
not to use Web Components.
>> No, the answer is always no.
[LAUGH] Any reason not
to use Web Components?
I think this slide might
address some of it.
But there's a few foot guns,
especially around styling,
which we'll talk about in nauseam.
So there's a few foot guns and a few
things you have to learn before it clicks.
But there's really not a reason
I would shy away from them.
I'm trying to think of like, but
this slide might address some of it,
if I can continue, is that fine?
Okay, I like to say Web Components
are slow like brisket,
and in the sense that they
are web standards, right?
Web standards take a long time.
To get a new element in HTML takes
like ten years, it's a long time.
To get new browser features,
they can happen kinda quickly, but
that stuff takes a long time.
So, if there's one reason not to use
Web Components is because you may
want some weird feature,
some micro feature like partial hydration.
I have to have partial hydration,
I don't know why.
I don't know what it means exactly,
but I have to have it.
That might take a while to have
a full baked in the browser solution.
So you may have to roll your own,
you may have to find one,
if you really,
really want a certain feature.
So it's gonna move a little bit
slower than hot new framework JS,
it's gonna move a little bit slower.
But the trade off is you're building
on a very stable foundation.
You're not gonna get sideswiped
by a major version change,
there's been a few in the history of
coding that didn't go so well, Python 3.
So there's a few didn't go so well.
So, if there's a reason I think not to,
it's just wonder, your sense [LAUGH] of,
my gosh, this is getting better every day,
might be a bit slower than it
is in something newish, so.
Does that help in answering the question,
anyone, yeah?
So it might be worth looking at like,
who is using Web Components?
And I found this list of
no-name companies over
at ourwebcomponents-a-thing-yet.com,
some fruit company, a rainbow,
letter company, a shipping truck company.
[LAUGH] I don't know, a company that
makes a solitaire game for your computer.
These are just no-name companies,
I'm kidding.
A lot of these big companies Apple,
Google, Amazon, Microsoft,
GitHub, YouTube, Adobe,
talk about that NASA.
There's Web Components in space,
why not, IBM, Red Hat, ING, Salesforce.
These are big companies, right?
They're all sort of using Web Components.
Web Components are actually on the rise.
Over the last year,
we actually saw a jump from about the 10%
to about 18% of all page loads in
Google Chrome are using Web Components.
That's a shocking figure, but
if you think of something like
YouTube uses Web Components,
that's gonna be a big chunk of page views,
GitHub as well.
What caused that jump?
We don't know.
I mean, I talked about web
components just before that jump.
So I'd like to think I had,
that's the Dave Ruprecht bump.
But, [LAUGH] I think the true
answer is maybe this, Wordle.
Wordle, which sold to
the New York Times for seven figures,
is made with Web Components.
And you can crack open the browser and
view the source and
guess what you'll see,
you'll see game-app and
then a bunch of Web Components kind
of revealed in that shadow DOM.
So Wordle, built on Web Components.
And there used to be,
[LAUGH] a little bug where
the solution was an attribute
[LAUGH] in the component so
you could just look at the attribute and
solve it instantly.
But we don't cheat, right,
we're not cheaters.
I obviously did not do very good this day.
So Wordle's built with Web Components,
but that's a toy game.
That's not a big deal, right,
tiny game, very popular.
The new Photoshop is built
with Web Components.
So, Photoshop's moving to a web-based
client, they built it with web components.
And there's an article here on web.dev,
yes, question.
>> Yeah, would you say that these
companies are using frameworks to compile
down to Web Components, or do they usually
natively just write it in web components?
>> So, in this one,
that's a good question,
are they using frameworks?
This is using Lit, which is more
like a library than framework.
But it's using Lit, and
just to almost bring
syntactic sugar to the component system.
And behind the scenes, there's a whole
bunch of wasum web assembly happening,
and that's doing all the image stuff,
image compression.
A lot of the graphical processing is
happening on a different thread in wasum.
So that's a whole other Front End Master's
course I'm not qualified to teach.
[LAUGH] But it's kind of a cool thing.
So they'll maybe write
something in Python, or C, or
whatever they were writing in before,
and compile the brains down.
But the web component is just talking
to the brain, the binary file inside.
Does that help answer your question?
Okay, yeah, so
Photoshop being built with Web Components.
And so if they're so popular,
why am I not using them?
That's a good question,
I have big opinions.
I think they're too low level,
first of all, and we'll see it here.
When you start using a web component,
you're like,
this is not fun to write immediately.
And that's because it was designed for
framework authors to build stuff on top.
It was sort of a low level primitive in
the web platform for people to build on.
However, the framework
authors didn't use it.
So, they had something that worked.
And for them to be like,
I should move from something that works
in every browser to something
that kinda only works in Chrome.
No, that's a past,
I have customers, totally fair.
And then you pile on some social stuff.
There's a bit of heavy
handed advocacy from Google.
I'll put them on blast like polymer,
and the AMP team,
sort of like,
if you wanna keep making money,
you should use these Web Components now,
[LAUGH] not quite that level.
But there was a bit of like,
sort of like shaming, like, you need to be
using Web Components, and they're like,
I can't, it doesn't work for me.
And so there's, social stuff,
basically it's Twitter's fault.
And then there was some
confusion about HTML imports,
I talked about how they
were killed off by Mozilla.
I'm still not mad, yes I am.
It sort of left the future,
what's gonna happen to these?
If one of the four legs of the stool got
kicked out, does the stool still stand?
And then, truly Web Components
didn't land in all major
browsers until 2020 when
Edge switched to Chromium.
So we had to literally kill
a whole entire browser rendering
engine to get ubiquitous support
in all the major browsers.
And if you look at the history, 2011 was
when they're sort of pitched as an idea,
2013 stuff start showing up in Chrome,
2016 Safari gets the V0 implementation.
Firefox didn't get it until 2018,
they had a big overhaul of their
whole entire rendering engine.
And then Edge didn't get it till 2020.
So if you weren't using Web Components
before 2020, yeah, that makes sense.
[LAUGH] You were probably
an early adopter,
which is why now I think it's a really
great time to start looking at them, yes.
>> As someone who's using
Web Components in production,
can you speak to Safari's
support at this stage?
I've heard in the past, I don't know
if it's FUD, that they support some but
not all aspects.
>> Yeah, so there is a tension, right?
So, it's very Google led,
but like I showed,
Microsoft is now getting involved too.
But they all commit to
the same browser engine, or
they influence the same browser engine.
But historically, Safari has not jumped on
the new web component proposals,
who knows why?
Apple keeps things pretty
tight to their chest.
They don't really broadcast what they're
doing, [LAUGH] they just kinda show
up one day and say, we made a element or a
new CSS animation thing that you can use.
And so, I think, historically, but
I do think it is getting
a little bit better.
I personally expect the speed to go up,
but there's a few things I
can show you that are implemented
in Chrome, but not in Safari.
And they would be cool if they
were in Chrome, or in Safari, but
they're just not.
So, stuff like declarative shadow DOM,
I think,
element internals, and
stuff like that, so.
>> I think that those tend to be nice to
haves in terms of web component usage,
as opposed to like, yeah,
template just isn't processed by WebKit?
>> Right,
I think there's no gamebreaking features.
I could be wrong here, but
I think they support the V1 spec entirely.
I think there's now a V2 sort of
like additions that places like
the community group, or Web Components
back authors they want included.
So, I think there's stuff like that,
so, but they're,
to be fair, a little hill draggy on it,
so, and we don't know why.